Now like I said The course is going to be highly practical.
So I want to teach everything by example.
Therefore we're literally going to start programming without even covering Python basics.
We're going to cover the basics as we write our first program.
Now the first program that I want to write is going to be a mock address changer MAC address stands
for Media Access Control.
It's a permanent physical and unique address assigned to network interfaces by the device manufacturer.
So whether you have a wireless card or a wired or Internet Card each one of these network cards come
up with a specific address that is unique to this card.
So there is no two devices in the world that would have the same MAC address and this address will always
be the same to this specific device.
Even if you unplug it from your computer connected to another computer then this network device will
always have the same address.
So you might already know that the IP address is used in the Internet to identify computers and communicate
between devices on the Internet.
The market price is used within the network to identify devices and transfer data between devices.
So each piece of data or packet that is sent within the network contains a source and a destination
mark.
Therefore this packet would flow from the source to the destination.
Mark so because this is a physical unique address to each interface to each network device and because
it is used to identify devices then changing it will make you anonymous on the network.
Not only that but the MAC address is often used by filters to prevent or allow devices to connect to
networks and do specific tasks on the network.
So being able to change your MAC address to another device has MAC address will allow you to impersonate
this device and allow you to do things that you might not be able to do.
So you'd be able to bypass filters or connect to networks that on the specific devices with specific
MAC addresses can connect to.
And you'll also be able to hide your identity now change the MAC address is very very simple.
Let me show you how to do that manually.
And then we'll see how we can write a program to do that.
So first of all we can use the ifconfig command to list all the interfaces on the current computer.
When I say interface I mean a network card.
So right here we have 88 0.
This is actually a virtual interface.
It's not real.
It is created by virtual box because we set this computer to use on our network.
So remember when I said that this computer thinks it is connected to a wired network and you can see
it says wired connected and all of this is done through a virtual network and a virtual interface in
here connected to that network.
You can also see the L-O which is a virtual interface created by Linux.
And I also have land zero which is an external us b wireless adapter so you might not have lines your.
It's ok you don't really need it unless you want to run some of the attacks that we will do later on
against a wireless network.
So don't worry about it now.
We'll talk more about it later.
But it is not mandatory anyway.
Now other than the interfaces the ifconfig command also lists information about each one of these interfaces
so you can see if this interface is connected to a network.
You'll see it has an IP you can see this one does not have an IP because it is not connected.
You can also see the Nat mosque and the broadcast for this network and you can also see the MAC address
of this interface.
So right now the MAC address for E.T. 0 is the highlighted part right here.
Same for 88 0.
We have the MAC address in here now to change this MAC address.
We're going to do ifconfig followed by the name of the interface that we want to change its MAC address.
So if you want to change the MAC address of Etihad 0 you do it with zero if you want to change the MAC
address or plan zero.
You would do line zero.
Now in this example I want to do it for 88 0 because everybody will have it Seijiro only people who
have a wireless adapter will see than zero.
So I'm going to do it for 88 0 so that everybody can follow this then I'm going to type down to disable
this interface.
So this is the first step.
We're going to disable our interface I'm going to hit enter.
And that's done if you don't see any errors.
That means the command got executed properly.
Now that the interface is disabled we can modify its options and the option that we want to modify is
the Ethar which is the MAC address so I'm going to say ifconfig again put the name of the interface
that you want to modify it's option which is 88 zero.
We're going to say hey step you either.
And we're going to specify the new MAC address that we want to use.
So you can use any mac address that you want.
And for example I'm just going to use 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 so make sure it has 12 characters.
Make sure you split it using the colon and that's it.
So I'm going to hit enter and again we don't see any errors so that means the command got executed properly
and now all we have to do is enable the interface because we disable that using this command.
So to enable the interface we're going to do if config interface name which is 88 0 and I'm going to
say up to enable it.
So we do it down to disable the interface and up to enable it so I'm going to hit enter and again we
don't see any errors of that.
So that means the command got executed properly.
And the last thing that I'm going to do now is do if can fit again to see if the MAC address did actually
get changed.
So I'm going to hit enter and as you can see now if we look at the other part of it is 0.
You can see that this has been changed to 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5.
So as you can see it is very easy to do that.
And like I said this would be useful in so many scenarios.
Now the main point why I'm showing you how to change it manually is because I want you to understand
what a MAC address is.
Have to change it.
And then in the section we're going to write a program that will automatically change the MAC address
for us.